What does this genetic variant mean for me?
Is this variant something I inherited?
Does this mean I will definitely have cancer?
Why should I share with family my genetic results?
Who are my first-degree relatives?
Should my family members get tested?
Which of my relatives are at risk?
Should I contact my male and female relatives?
Can only women can carry a BRCA inherited mutation?
What if a family member doesn't want to get tested?
Can I give this to my kids?
How can I get my kids tested?
At what age should my children get tested?
Can this variant skip a generation?
Why would my relatives want to know if they have this? What can they do about it?
I don't talk to my family/parents/sister/brother. How can I share this with them?
What are the recommendations for my family members if I have a mutation in (specify gene: MSH2, MSH1, MSH6, PMS2, EPCAM/MSH2, BRCA1, BRCA2)?
Does this genetic variant affect my cancer treatment?
What if I want to have children and have a hereditary cancer gene? What are my reproductive options?
I have a BRCA pathogenic variant and I want to have children, what are my options?
Is genetic testing for my family members covered by insurance?
Will this affect my health insurance?
People who test positive for a genetic mutation are they at risk of losing their health insurance?
Does GINA cover life or disability insurance?
Will my insurance cover testing for my parents/brother/sister?
My [relative] doesn't have insurance. What should they do?
How can I cope with this diagnosis?
What if I feel overwhelmed?
Is new research being done on my condition?
How can I help others with my condition?
Where can I find a genetic counselor?
What other resources are available to help me?
Who do my family members call to have genetic testing?
What types of cancers am I at risk for?
What screening tests do you recommend?
What steps can I take to manage my cancer risk if I have Lynch syndrome? (not specific to variant)
What are the Risks and Benefits of Risk-Reducing Surgeries for Lynch Syndrome?
What is my cancer risk if I have MSH2 or EPCAM- associated Lynch syndrome?
What is my cancer risk if I have PMS2 Lynch syndrome?
What is my cancer risk if I have MSH1 Lynch syndrome?
What is my cancer risk if I have MSH6 Lynch syndrome?
What is my cancer risk if I have BRCA2 Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer syndrome?
What is my cancer risk if I have BRCA1 Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer syndrome?
What are the surveillance and preventions I can take to reduce my risk of cancer or detecting cancer early if I have a EPCAM/MSH2 mutation?
What are the surveillance and preventions I can take to reduce my risk of cancer or detecting cancer early if I have an MSH2 mutation?
What are the surveillance and preventions I can take to reduce my risk of cancer or detecting cancer early if I have a BRCA mutation?
Why do some families with Lynch syndrome have more cases of cancer than others?
How might my genetic test results change over time?
What is Lynch Syndrome?