Q: What does this genetic variant mean for me?
A: It means you carry a change or variation in one of your genes that increases your risk for certain types of cancer. These genetic variations are commonly referred to as "mutations".

Q: Is this variant something I inherited?
A: Yes, the pathogenic variant (mutation) identified was inherited. This means you inherited the variant from one of your parents, and it can be passed on to your biological children. If you have siblings, they might also have inherited this from your parents.

Q: Does this mean I will definitely have cancer?
A: No, having a pathogenic variant increases your risk for certain types of cancers but does not mean you will definitely have cancer. There are people who have genetic predisposition to cancer and never develop cancer. Cancer risk depends on the specific gene and family history.

Q: Why should I share with family my genetic results?
A: Inherited gene mutations affect men and women across multiple generations within families. Blood relatives, even distant relatives, may share the same mutation that runs in a family. Your relatives may not be aware of your family's medical history. You have had genetic testing, and you can provide your relatives with information that they can use to understand and manage their risk for cancer.

Q: Who are my first-degree relatives?
A: When speaking about a family tree, we use the term "degree of relatedness" to describe how closely a family member is related to you. "First-degree relatives," are referring to relatives who share half of your DNA and who have a 50% chance of testing positive for the same mutation that you carry. Importantly, if your mother or father tests positive for a mutation, then you and each of your siblings have a 50% chance of also testing positive for the same mutation. Even if you test negative, your siblings need to undergo testing to determine if any of them have your parent's mutation. First-degree relatives: Siblings, Children, Parents. Second-degree relatives: Half-siblings, Uncles and aunts, Grandparents, Grandchildren, Nieces and nephews. Third-degree relatives: Cousins, Great-grandparents, Great-aunts and great-uncles.

Q: Should my family members get tested?
A: Yes, first-degree blood relatives (parents, siblings, children) have a 50% chance of carrying the same variant. Testing can help them take preventive actions if needed.

Q: Which of my relatives are at risk?
A: Your inherited mutation came from either your mother or your father. Knowing which side of the family your mutation came from, you can focus your efforts on informing relatives on that side of the family. However, if you are uncertain which parent passed the mutation on to you, and your parents are unable to be tested, you may have to inform relatives on both sides of your family. Patterns in your family medical history may help you identify which side of your family is the likely source of the mutation. The genetic counselor or doctor who ordered your genetic test can help you narrow down your list. You may also be able to enlist relatives to help you tell other relatives.

Q: Should I contact my male and female relatives?
A: It is important to notify both your male and female relatives about genetic testing results. Men can carry gene mutations. Men with mutations have increased risk for different cancers. The type of cancer they are at risk for depends on the gene mutation.

Q: Can only women can carry a BRCA inherited mutation?
A: Both men and women can inherit a genetic mutation associated with cancer.

Q: What if a family member doesn't want to get tested?
A: That's their choice but understanding their risk can help guide medical care. Genetic counseling can help them make an informed decision.

Q: Can I give this to my kids?
A: Yes, your biological children each have a 50% chance of also having the same mutation.

Q: How can I get my kids tested?
A: For many hereditary cancer conditions, it is not recommended for children to have genetic testing until adulthood. Though, for some genes, the recommendation would be to test earlier. It is important to check with your doctor or genetic counselor so they can best guide you about the age your children should be tested.

Q: At what age should my children get tested?
A: Most inherited gene mutations do not increase cancer risk in children. For your inherited gene variant (specify gene: BRCA1, BRCA2, MSH2, MSH1, MSH6, EPCAM), experts typically recommend waiting until after age 18 before deciding about testing. However, some hereditary cancer genes may be linked to childhood cancers. In these situations, it is appropriate for children to be tested. It is most helpful for people to learn about the mutation in their family by the time they reach the recommended age to begin screening and prevention. Speak with your healthcare provider to learn the recommended screening and prevention guidelines for your specific gene mutation.

Q: Can this variant skip a generation?
A: No, there is no way for a mutation to get to future generations unless it is passed directly from parent to child.

Q: Why would my relatives want to know if they have this? What can they do about it?
A: Genetic testing is a very personal decision. Each individual should weigh the pros and cons of testing for themselves. Knowing about an increased cancer risk can help your relatives make a plan for personalized screening in hopes of detecting any possible cancer early. There may also be preventive options depending on the gene.

Q: I don't talk to my family/parents/sister/brother. How can I share this with them?
A: The most important piece of information to share with your family is your genetic test results and your increased risk of cancer due to this genetic mutation. Would also stress the significant possibility that the family member may also have inherited this high risk of cancer and should find out more info. If you don't feel comfortable sharing it directly with your family/parents/sister/brother, maybe you can share it with another relative who would be willing to pass this information along. Would it be helpful to have a letter drafted to share this information with your family? Yes -- What gene variant do you have? I will provide you with a draft of a family letter which you can share with your family members, providing them with information so that they could consider genetic counseling and testing. (Draft dear family letter- the examples are in the box). No -- Ok, you can request one if you change your mind. Unsure -- A family letter provides information about the particular gene variant and the increased risk for specific cancers. It can guide your family members where they can receive more information and how to easily contact a genetic counselor in their area.

Q: What are the recommendations for my family members if I have a mutation in (specify gene: MSH2, MSH1, MSH6, PMS2, EPCAM/MSH2, BRCA1, BRCA2)?
A: A parent who has a mutation in (specify gene) has a 50% chance of passing it to their child. The mutation was inherited from one of your parents. We cannot confirm which parent without testing them. Your first-degree relatives (siblings and children) all have a 50% likelihood of carrying this mutation. Both men and women can inherit and pass it along. Genetic testing is recommended for all relatives over age 18. I can assist in connecting them with a genetic counselor in their area or they may choose to contact a genetic counselor through the National Society of Genetic Counselors via their website www.nsgc.org, click on Find A Genetic Counselor. Please share this information with your family members so they can discuss this information with their healthcare providers and proceed with genetic testing.

Q: Does this genetic variant affect my cancer treatment?
A: Yes, certain variants may influence treatment options. For example, treatment design take advantage of what we know about the biology of patients with genetic variants. These example PARP inhibitors are a class of drugs that are effective for BRCA-related cancers, and Immunotherapy is a class of drugs that are effective for some Lynch syndrome-related cancers. Your oncologist and genetic counselor will guide you about the best care for you.

Q: What if I want to have children and have a hereditary cancer gene? What are my reproductive options?
A: For patients of reproductive age, there are options for prenatal diagnosis and assisted reproduction including pre-implantation genetic testing. Discuss with your healthcare team the known risks, limitations, and benefits of these technologies.

Q: I have a BRCA pathogenic variant and I want to have children, what are my options?
A: Female: I suggest you consult with a fertility specialist to discuss your options. Your options could include in vitro fertilization (IVF), egg or embryo-cryopreservation, consideration of preimplantation genetic testing (PGT), and adoption. PGT is a screening process that analyzes embryos created through in vitro fertilization (IVF) for genetic or chromosomal abnormalities. PGT can help couples make informed decisions about which embryos to transfer to the uterus. If eggs or embryos are cryopreserved, pregnancy may be achieved if you have your uterus and have not received radiation to your pelvis. Pregnancy could be achieved even in some women who have had their fallopian tubes or ovaries removed. Women with a pathogenic variant in BRCA1 may have earlier menopause and oocyte aging.

Q: Is genetic testing for my family members covered by insurance?
A: Testing is covered by most insurance companies, especially for people who have a relative who tested positive for a hereditary cancer predisposition gene. Testing options are also available for people who are uninsured. Additionally, reputable laboratories offer financial assistance or low-cost testing for people whose testing is not covered by insurance.

Q: Will this affect my health insurance?
A: In the U.S., the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) protects you from discrimination in health insurance and employment based on genetic information. You can learn more about your rights on the site Cancer Legal Resource Center. (https://thedrlc.org/cancer/)

Q: People who test positive for a genetic mutation are they at risk of losing their health insurance?
A: Laws protect people from health insurance and employment discrimination. You can learn more about your rights on the site Cancer Legal Resource Center. (https://thedrlc.org/cancer/)

Q: Does GINA cover life or disability insurance?
A: No, GINA does not protect against discrimination in life, disability, or long-term care insurance. Your relatives who plant to get genetic testing may want to secure these policies before testing. You can learn more about your rights on the site Cancer Legal Resource Center. (https://thedrlc.org/cancer/)

Q: Will my insurance cover testing for my parents/brother/sister?
A: No, your parents'/brother's/sister's genetic testing would be billed to their health insurance, not yours.

Q: My [relative] doesn't have insurance. What should they do?
A: Many laboratories offer relatively affordable genetic testing options. Your [relative] may have to pay out-of-pocket for a genetics consult before testing. The best thing to do is contact the office to ask about costs. There are also country-wide centers that offer genetic counseling at a set fee.

Q: How can I cope with this diagnosis?
A: Support groups, therapy, or counseling can be very helpful. Your genetic counselor can refer you to resources tailored to your needs.

Q: What if I feel overwhelmed?
A: That's completely normal. Genetic counselors are trained to provide emotional support and connect you with resources to manage stress and anxiety. You are not alone. There are wonderful supportive and informative resources including FORCE (Facing Hereditary Cancer Empowered). (https://www.facingourrisk.org/)

Q: Is new research being done on my condition?
A: Yes, genetic research is rapidly advancing. Your genetic counselor and doctor can share the latest updates and resources to stay informed.

Q: How can I help others with my condition?
A: Participating in support and advocacy groups can be both empowering and comforting. By connecting with others who share the same genetic variant, you can find solidarity in common experiences and fears. Supporting one another, sharing personal stories, and exchanging lessons learned can help build a sense of community and strength. Your involvement not only provides emotional support for others but can also contribute to raising awareness and advocating for important causes related to your condition. You can also be a patient advocate involved in guiding and tailoring research that directly addresses your needs and others like you- to advance our understanding hereditary cancer syndromes.

Q: Where can I find a genetic counselor?
A: You can locate a genetic counselor near you through the National Society of Genetic Counseling's website at www.findageneticcounselor.com. A genetic counselor will provide expert advice to help you understand your risks and make informed decisions.

Q: What other resources are available to help me?
A: There are several helpful resources including: FORCE (Facing Our Risk of Cancer Empowered) (https://www.facingourrisk.org/), BrightPink (https://www.brightpink.org/), Cancer Legal Resource Center (https://thedrlc.org/cancer/). These organizations provide support and information for individuals facing hereditary cancer risks.

Q: Who do my family members call to have genetic testing?
A: It is important for your family members to first touch base with their primary care physician about the family history. This is because some insurances require a referral and authorization to see a genetics specialist. A great website for finding a genetic counselor by zip code is findageneticcounselor.nsgc.org.

Q: What types of cancers am I at risk for?
A: Each gene is linked to increased risks for specific cancers. Would you like some general information about Lynch syndrome cancer risks? Yes -- Please tell me which gene you are interested in. Patient provides gene name > Bot provides overview of associated risks. Patient does not know gene > Bot provides very general overview of Lynch risks. For Lynch syndrome, cancer risk varies depending on the specific gene affected, but generally include increased risks for colorectal, endometrial, ovarian, and other cancers.

Q: What screening tests do you recommend?
A: Screening for cancer may include blood tests or imaging based on your risk. I can suggest a screening plan based on your genetic results if you would like, (PV specific). I want to stress the importance of receiving consultation from a genetic counselor and your healthcare team to develop a personalized screening plan.

Q: What steps can I take to manage my cancer risk if I have Lynch syndrome? (not specific to variant)
A: I suggest that you speak with your genetic counselor about your risk and management tailored to your personal family history and specific variant. If you have Lynch syndrome, there are several steps you can take to manage your cancer risk: 1. Regular cancer screening: Undergo frequent screenings to detect cancer early when it's most treatable. This includes: Annual or biennial colonoscopies starting in your 20s or 30s depending on the specific variant for colon cancer detection. Consider annual or biennial endometrial biopsies biopsy starting at age 30–35 for women. Consider annual urinalysis starting at age 30–35 urine samples for urinary tract and bladder cancer monitoring. 2. Consider preventive surgeries: Discuss with your doctor the possibility of risk-reducing surgeries such as: Hysterectomy to remove the uterus and lower the risk for endometrial cancer. Oophorectomy salpingo-oopherectomy to remove ovaries and fallopian tubes and lower the risk for ovarian cancer. 3. Medication: Daily aspirin use may help reduce cancer risk of colorectal cancer, but I suggest you discuss the benefits and risks with your doctor first, as this is not the recommendation with all patients. For women, oral contraceptives or intrauterine devices (IUDs) may lower the risk of endometrial and ovarian cancers. 4. Lifestyle modifications: Maintain a healthy weight, Exercise regularly, Eat a diet rich in fruits and vegetables and low in red meat, Limit alcohol consumption. 5. Stay informed: Keep up-to-date with the latest research and guidelines for Lynch syndrome management. Check in regularly with your physician. 6. Regular check-ups: Visit your healthcare provider annually and promptly report any unusual symptoms or changes in your health. Remember to work closely with a team of healthcare professionals, including a genetic counselor, to create a personalized risk management plan tailored to your specific needs.

Q: What are the Risks and Benefits of Risk-Reducing Surgeries for Lynch Syndrome?
A: Benefits: 1. Cancer Risk Reduction: A hysterectomy (removal of the uterus) and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (removal of ovaries and fallopian tubes) reduces the risk of endometrial and ovarian cancers, which are elevated in Lynch syndrome carriers. These surgeries are considered the most reliable method to prevent these cancers, as screening methods for endometrial and ovarian cancers are not very effective. 2. Reducing the Need for Ongoing Screening: After surgery, patients may avoid the need for frequent and invasive screenings for gynecological cancers. 3. Reduction of Other Cancer Risks: Removal of ovaries may also slightly lower the risk of breast cancer. Risks: 1. Surgical Complications: As with any surgery, there is a risk of complications such as infection, bleeding, or damage to surrounding organs. 2. Early Menopause: Pre-menopausal women undergoing oophorectomy (removal of the ovaries) will experience immediate menopause, which can lead to symptoms such as hot flashes, bone density loss, and increased cardiovascular risks. Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) may be recommended by your physician. 3. Loss of Fertility: These surgeries result in permanent infertility. Women who wish to have children should consider completing childbearing before undergoing surgery. 4. Psychological and Emotional Impact: The loss of reproductive organs can have emotional and psychological effects, including impacts on body image and sexual health. 5. Residual Cancer Risks: While these surgeries greatly reduce cancer risks, they do not eliminate the possibility of primary peritoneal cancer after removal of the ovaries for example or other (HBOCS/ Lynch syndrome) associated cancers. Considerations: Surgery is typically recommended after childbearing is complete for risk reduction. The decision to undergo risk-reducing surgery should be made in consultation with your healthcare team, considering individual risk factors, age, family planning goals, and overall health.

Q: What is my cancer risk if I have MSH2 or EPCAM- associated Lynch syndrome?
A: MSH2/EPCAM Cancer Risk: A pathogenic variant (mutation) was identified in EPCAM/MSH2, which is associated with Lynch syndrome. Lifetime cancer risk (measured to age 80) is estimated to be 33%-52% for colorectal, 21-57% for endometrial, 8-38% for ovarian, 0.5-1.6% for pancreas, 0.02-1.7% for biliary tract, 3.9-23.8% for prostate, 2.5-7.7% for brain, 0.2%-9.0% for gastric, 1.1%-10% for small bowel, 4.4%-12.8% for bladder, and 2.2%-28% for renal pelvis. I suggest that you speak with your genetic counselor about your risk and management tailored to your personal family history and specific variant.

Q: What is my cancer risk if I have PMS2 Lynch syndrome?
A: PMS2 mutation Cancer Risk: Mutations in PMS2 cause Lynch syndrome, which is a hereditary predisposition to gastrointestinal and gynecologic cancers. It is important to note that the overall cancer risks associated with mutations in PMS2 are lower than cancer risks associated with the other Lynch syndrome genes. Keep this in mind if you read about Lynch syndrome online. Lifetime cancer risk by site (measured to age 80) is estimated to be 8.7%–20%% for colorectal cancer, 13%–26% for endometrial cancer, 1.3–3% for ovarian cancer, ≤1%–1.6% for pancreatic cancer, 0.2%– ≤1% for biliary tract cancer, 4.6%–11.6% for prostate cancer, 0.6%–≤1% for brain cancer, 0.1%–0.3% for small bowel cancer, ≤1%–2.4% for bladder cancer, and ≤1%–3.7% for renal pelvis cancer. I suggest that you speak with your genetic counselor about your risk and management tailored to your personal family history and specific variant.

Q: What is my cancer risk if I have MSH1 Lynch syndrome?
A: MSH1 Cancer Risk: Mutations in MSH1 cause Lynch syndrome, which is a hereditary predisposition to gastrointestinal and gynecologic cancers. Lifetime risk (measured to age 80) is estimated to be 46-61% for colorectal cancer, 34-54% for endometrial cancer, 4-20% for ovarian cancer, 5-7%% for gastric cancer, 0.4%-11% for small bowel, 2-7%% for bladder, 6.2% for pancreatic cancer, 1.9-3.7% for biliary cancer, 0.7-1.7% for brain cancer and 0.2-5% for cancer of the renal pelvis and or ureter. I suggest that you speak with your genetic counselor about your risk and management tailored to your personal family history and specific variant.

Q: What is my cancer risk if I have MSH6 Lynch syndrome?
A: MSH6 mutation Cancer Risk: Mutations in MSH6 cause Lynch syndrome, which is a hereditary predisposition to gastrointestinal and gynecologic cancers. It is important to note that the overall cancer risks associated with mutations in MSH6 are lower than cancer risks associated with the other Lynch syndrome genes. Keep this in mind if you read about Lynch syndrome online. Lifetime risk for cancer by site (measured to age 80) is estimated to be 10-44% for colorectal, 16-49% for endometrial, ≤1-13% for ovarian, 2.5-11.6% for prostate,0.8-1.8 for brain ≤1-7.9% for gastric cancer, ≤1-4% for small bowel, 1-8.2% for bladder, 1.4-1.6% for pancreatic cancer, 0.2-≤1% for biliary cancer, 0.7-1.7% for brain cancer and 0.7-5.5% for cancer of the renal pelvis and or ureter. I suggest that you speak with your genetic counselor about your risk and management tailored to your personal family history and specific variant.

Q: What is my cancer risk if I have BRCA2 Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer syndrome?
A: BRCA2 Cancer Risk: A pathogenic variant (mutation) was identified in BRCA2. Mutations in BRCA2 cause Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer syndrome (HBOC), an inherited predisposition to breast and ovarian cancer in women and male breast and prostate cancer in men. For females, the lifetime absolute risk for breast cancer is 55-69%, and the absolute risk for ovarian cancer is 13-29%. For males, the risk (up to age 70) for breast cancer is estimated to be 1.8%-7.1% and the risk (up to age 70) for prostate cancer is estimated to be 19%-61%. In addition, there is an increased risk for other types of cancer such as melanoma (~5%) and pancreatic cancer (5%-10%). I suggest that you speak with your genetic counselor about your risk and management tailored to your personal family history and specific variant.

Q: What is my cancer risk if I have BRCA1 Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer syndrome?
A: BRCA1 Cancer Risk: A pathogenic variant (mutation) was identified in BRCA1. Mutations in BRCA1 cause Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer syndrome (HBOC), which is an inherited predisposition to breast and ovarian cancer in women and male breast and prostate cancer in men. For females, the lifetime absolute risk for breast cancer is 60%-72%, and the absolute risk for ovarian cancer is 39%-58%. For males, the risk (up to age 70) for breast cancer is estimated to be 0.2%-1.2% and the risk (up to age 70) for prostate cancer is estimated to be 7%-26%. In addition, there is an increased risk for other types of cancer such as pancreatic cancer (≤5%). I suggest that you speak with your genetic counselor about your risk and management tailored to your personal family history and specific variant.

Q: What are the surveillance and preventions I can take to reduce my risk of cancer or detecting cancer early if I have a EPCAM/MSH2 mutation?
A: EPCAM/MSH2 mutation management, surveillance and prevention strategies: Recommendations for management and surveillance are based on your genetic test results and your personal/family history. Gastrointestinal: Individuals with EPCAM/MSH2 mutations are recommended to undergo colonoscopy screening every 1-2 years starting between ages 20-25 as well as upper endoscopy every 2-4 years starting between ages 30-40. Gynecological: Individuals with MSH2, have a higher risk of early endometrial and ovarian cancer, Hysterectomy (surgical removal of the uterus) and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO), the removal of fallopian tubes and ovaries, may be considered starting at age 40. Hysterectomy and BSO can reduce the chance of developing endometrial and ovarian cancer. Therefore, hysterectomy is a risk-reducing option that can be discussed with your healthcare team. The timing of hysterectomy should be individualized based on whether childbearing is complete, comorbidities, family history, and the specific lynch syndrome gene, as risk for endometrial cancer varies by gene. After the removal of the ovaries, women experience premature menopause that can cause detriments to bone health, cardiovascular health, and generalized quality of life. Your physician may discuss with you estrogen replacement therapy if there are no medical conditions that would risk this treatment being harmful. Women who have not undergone a hysterectomy may be consider screening with an endometrial biopsy every 1–2 years starting at age 30–35. Salpingectomy (removal of the fallopian tubes) has been shown to reduce the risk of ovarian cancer in the general population and this is an option for patients with hereditary cancer risk who are not yet ready for oophorectomy (removal of the ovaries). Your physician may consider risk-reduction agents for endometrial and ovarian cancers, including oral contraceptive pills and progestin intrauterine systems. Bladder: Annual urinalysis beginning between ages 30-35. This can be done at the time of your annual physical, please discuss this with your primary care provider. Prostate: Annual prostate screening beginning at age 40. This can be done at the time of your annual physical, please discuss this with your primary care provider. Pancreas: Screening for pancreatic cancer is only indicated if there is a family history of pancreatic cancer. I suggest that you speak with your genetic counselor about your risk and management tailored to your personal family history and specific variant.

Q: What are the surveillance and preventions I can take to reduce my risk of cancer or detecting cancer early if I have an MSH2 mutation?
A: MSH2 mutation management, surveillance and prevention strategies: Recommendations for management and surveillance are based on your genetic test results and your personal/family history. Below is a list of recommendations by site of cancer risk: Colorectal cancer: Individuals with MSH2 mutations are at elevated risk for colon cancer and are recommended to undergo colonoscopy screening every 1-2 years starting between ages 20-25. You may also consider taking a daily baby aspirin, if there is no contraindications; this should be discussed with GI provider as well. Gynecological cancer: You may discuss with your healthcare team, the timing of risk reducing surgery including hysterectomy and removal of ovaries. I suggest that you speak with your genetic counselor about your risk and management tailored to your personal family history and specific variant.

Q: What are the surveillance and preventions I can take to reduce my risk of cancer or detecting cancer early if I have a BRCA mutation?
A: Recommendations for management and surveillance are based on your genetic test results and your personal/family history. Below is a list of recommendations by site of cancer risk: Breast cancer: For females, women should be familiar with their breasts, and aware of changes starting at age 18 years. Clinical breast exam, every 6–12 months, starting at age 25 years. Breast screening recommendations are tailored by age: Age 25–29 years: annual breast MRI screening (or mammogram, only if MRI is unavailable) or individualized based on family history if there was a breast cancer diagnosis in the family before age 30. Age 30–75 years: annual mammogram and breast MRI screening. Age >75 years: management should be considered on an individual basis. Discuss the option of a risk reducing mastectomy (RRM) with your healthcare provider. There are many psychosocial changes and quality-of-life aspects after undergoing RRM. Consider risk reduction drug options for breast cancer with your healthcare provider if you do not undergo RRM. For males, men should begin doing a breast self-exam starting at age 35 years. Clinical breast exam, at your healthcare provider, every 12 months, starting at age 35 years. Consider annual mammogram, especially for those with BRCA2 variant in whom the lifetime risk of breast cancer is up to 7%, starting at age 50 or 10 years before the earliest known male breast cancer in the family (whichever comes first). Gynecological Cancer (ovarian, fallopian tube, peritoneal, uterine cancers): Non-surgical risk reduction: Consider combination estrogen/progestin contraception (such as oral contraceptive pills to suppress ovulation, which has been shown to reduce the risk for ovarian cancer. Discuss the risks and benefits with your gynecologist oncologist or expert in genetics. Levonorgestrel intrauterine device has been shown to reduce the risk of ovarian cancer in the general population. Surgical risk reduction salpingooophorectomy (RRSO)- removal of both ovaries and fallopian tubes. Based on age-related risks of ovarian/fallopian tube cancer: BRCA1: Recommend RRSO between 35 and 40 years. BRCA2: Because ovarian cancer onset in patients with BRCA2 variants is an average of 8–10 years later than in patients with BRCA1 variants, it is reasonable to delay RRSO for management of ovarian cancer risk until age 40–45 years in patients with BRCA2 variants unless age at diagnosis in the family warrants earlier age for consideration of surgery. Blood test for CA-125 and pelvic ultrasound are recommended for preoperative planning. In addition, in premenopausal individuals, oophorectomy- removal of the ovaries, likely reduces the risk of developing breast cancer. Following the surgery -- there are changes in bone health, cardiovascular health, psychosocial health, neurologic health, sexual health, and generalized quality-of life. Pancreatic Cancer: Individuals with a family history of pancreatic cancer (first-degree or second-degree relative) from the same side of the family, may consider pancreatic cancer screening using annual MRI/magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) and/or endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). This should be discussed with your healthcare team. Prostate Cancer: Starting at age 40, start prostate cancer screening for BRCA2 carriers, including blood PSA, and consider digital rectal exam. Your healthcare team may consider prostate cancer screening for BRCA1 carriers. Melanoma: No specific screening guidelines exist for melanoma, but general melanoma risk management is appropriate, such as annual full-body skin examination and minimizing ultraviolet (UV). I suggest that you speak with your genetic counselor about your risk and management tailored to your personal family history and specific variant.

Q: Why do some families with Lynch syndrome have more cases of cancer than others?
A: Cancer risk can vary among families with Lynch syndrome, even if they have the same gene mutation. This difference might be due to other genetic factors or lifestyle choices, such as diet, exercise, and exposure to tobacco or alcohol. Family history plays a big role too.

Q: How might my genetic test results change over time?
A: As research progresses, the interpretation of genetic variants can change. Your genetic counselor may recontact you if there are updates to your results. It is important to check in with your healthcare provider regularly to learn of any changes in recommendations.

Q: What is Lynch Syndrome?
A: Lynch syndrome is a hereditary predisposition to colorectal and gynecologic cancers. There are five genes that are associated with Lynch syndrome (EPCAM, MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2). Each gene is linked to a different level of cancer risk.